for a good while now I feel like I've
had the perfect keyboard This is the
mode 80 it's got milkshake key caps got
the OG holy Panda switches love the way
that it looks like the way it types love
the way that it
sounds but last January I saw this
picture on Reddit and it looks so damn
cool now that keyboard cannot be built
anymore in the exact same way it was a
very limited run but it was able to
construct something similar so this here
uses a plank Ortho kit from drop and the
key caps are called doid I found them
available on Amazon I'll link them down
below but the thing you'll notice right
away is number one these key caps well
they're Legend lless so there's no like
printing on them but they're also shaped
like a strange legol like aesthetic
which I think is really cool but also if
you look at the layout it's like a
perfect grid right straight horizontal
rows and vertical columns and it's
supposed to be very ergonomic like a
very comfortable and efficient typing
position but also this is a very small
keyboard like this is a 48 key keyboard
so it's like a 40% the smallest I've
used prior to this was something like
this this is a 60% keyboard so 61 keys
this being significantly smaller it
requires you to use layer shifts so in
order to to access all the keys you have
to go between layers to access all the
stuff you would need on a keyboard but
it looked awesome and I was like this is
going to be great so I set up everything
and I filmed myself using it for the
first time and it was unbelievable and
by by unbelievable I mean unbelievably
bad I was typing at 20 words per minute
and that was with me trying now normally
when I type on a keyboard like a regular
layout I'm like 90 maybe 100 words per
minute I'm not crazy fast but fast
enough right I type on a lot of
different laptops a lot of different
desktop keyboards give me a keyboard
give me 5 minutes I can hit 90 words per
minute on monkey type comfortably but
with this Ortho thing this keyboard with
awesome ergonomics I was at 20 so my
first thought was like I can work on
this this ain't a big deal I just got to
spend a little time and just get com
with it so over the next little bit I
spent hours each day using this keyboard
exclusively and it was hell because not
only was I typing super slow everything
had errors like my typing sucked video
editing was slow and gaming was terrible
like I was popping my ALT in the spawn
room everything was just bad the whole
typing experience was not great and it
was entirely because I couldn't get used
to that new layout and I thought maybe
it's the keyboard like maybe it's the
combination of the switches and the key
caps that I chose that made this super
difficult so I got more Ortho keyboards
and I got this one in from board Source
this thing is super Sleek it's wireless
it's got such a nice layout it looks
awesome already with Legends it looks
even cleaner Legend lless and I just
thought that this would somehow change
the experience because it's a different
typing profile but also orthol linear
but the exact same problems it best SS
like 50 60 words per minute on these
things and the the conclusion that I
drew at that point in time was like
these are very beautiful looking
keyboards but they're just not for me I
just cannot get used to them now now at
the time that I picked up this one from
board Source my friend also picked up
the same kind of keyboard but in a
different color he got a black one that
looked Ultra Clean with legend key caps
and he had a wildly different experience
from me he loved his keyboard he was
able to hit his normal typing speed very
quickly and we buted heads about this
stuff but he said to me dude do not make
a video about these keyboards until you
can hit your regular typing speed like
work on it until you can get to like 90
or 100 words per minute and then if you
still hate the keyboard sure take a
steaming dump on them but just don't
make it because you just haven't gotten
used to it so I was like okay I need to
get faster on these things so the first
thing I did was trying to put Legends
onto these doy key caps I got some tape
wrote some letters out put them on and
it didn't work very well and then I
tried using different colored key caps
so to be able to identify where the
alphas were supposed to be that also
didn't work very well I even tried
bringing the key caps from my old
keyboard even though they're different
height and that obviously didn't work
and then I also tried even changing the
way that I type by using my pinkies so
another thing I didn't really cover is
that I don't type normally like the
proper way to type I never use my
pinkies I just use the three fingers to
type and my thumb for the space bar and
I thought maybe if I learned how to type
properly then I'd be able to hit my
proper speeds on this thing none of it
worked and I think ultimately the main
reason I couldn't learn to type properly
on these things or type fast on them was
because I have 30 years 30 plus years of
muscle memory just baked into how I type
and to undo all of it was ridiculously
hard especially at a highw per per
minute and then last week on Friday I
had this realization I've been typing
pretty hard on this keyboard for months
at this point sometimes like 2 hours a
day and my wrist felt surprisingly fresh
like normally when you type for a couple
hours I don't have any kind of carpal
tunel or anything but I feel tired like
my wrists feel like they've been they've
been used and I realized that moment
that was the first time I kind of picked
up on it and like this is what
ergonomics is about this is why these
ergonomic keyboards exist because you
could type for hours and your wrists are
in this like very neutral position
They're Not Bent or crooked and your
fingers don't have to move as much if
you're typing properly and that's when I
was like okay I get it now I get why
these keyboards exist and there's this
rocket fuel in me to be like I need to
learn how to type on this thing so I
committed to it and at this point I can
comfortably hit 90 sometimes 95 WS per
minute on this keyboard and after going
through all of this I would say that I'm
a firm believer that this layout the
orthol linear layout is better than a
regular keyboard layout now it's not for
everyone like there's two big reasons
why number one these Ortho keyboards are
more expensive because they're not very
popular not a lot of companies make them
this one here is like one of the cheaper
ones and it's already a hundred bucks
for a Bare Bones kit so you got to get
your own key caps and switches and then
for a wireless version the one from
board Source this thing starts at 130
bucks so it's definitely a step up in
price the other thing to keep in mind
and this I think is the bigger one it is
a massive commitment to like put in the
time to unlearn how how to type on a
regular keyboard it is no joke you think
it would be easy it is stupidly hard
especially if you type fast on a regular
layout but then you might be wondering
wait a minute if orthol linear keyboards
are better then why is it that like
99.9% of keyboards out there are those
standard regular layouts and I looked
into it it turns out it's actually a
pretty weird reason the original
keyboards came out when typewriters were
invented like sometime in the late 1800s
typewriters came out and that was the
first kind of keyboard that people had
to interact with and because of the way
those typewriters worked those little
levers that pop up and down they had to
keep the keys staggered in terms of
formation so they wouldn't come up and
jam against each other those levers they
had to keep the whole keyboard array
staggered like that so that's the reason
it's just that it's from so long ago now
I think that if keyboards were invented
today like imagine typewriters never
existed and we just had computers and
someone had to create a keyboard for
them there's no way that we would come
up with weird like staggered formations
nowadays I think we've just had
ortholinear keyboards right off the rip
if you think about like stenographers
Court stenographers who type super fast
for living all of those keyboards are
just like colner style like they're
specialized keyboards with special keys
but they're all arranged in colums kind
of like orthol linear also if you think
about like the number pads and stuff
those are arranged in a grid right not
staggered numbers because that's just
the way that people type it's only
because of typewriters that we still
have that staggered layout I actually
think it's weird that it's lasted as
long as it has it it was literally like
the late 1800s until now in 2024 but
anyways that's my Ortho keyboard journey
I hope this at least at the very least
brought some attention to these types of
keyboards for people that are interested
in this type of stuff like if you type
really frequently and you have like
wrist injury risk I would totally
consider one of these things like
they're that's what they're for anyways
hope you enjoyed this video